Release Notes for v6.0.1 (#3131)
dotnet/SqlClient: release-notes/6.0/6.0.0.md

# Release Notes

## [Stable release 6.0.0] - 2024-12-09

This update brings the below changes over the previous stable release:

### Breaking Changes

- Removed support for .NET Standard. [#2386](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2386)
- Removed support for .NET 6 [#2927](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2927)

> - Removed UWP (uap) references. [#2483](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2483)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Removed UWP (UAP) references. [#2483](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2483)
```

- Removed SQL 2000 client-side debugging support for .NET Framework [#2981](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2981), [#2940](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2940)

### Added

#### JSON Support

> JSON Datatype support is now available in Microsoft.Data.SqlClient v6.0. This release introduces `SqlJson` type available as an extension to `System.Data.SqlDbTypes`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSON data type support is now available in Microsoft.Data.SqlClient v6.0. This release introduces the `SqlJson` type available as an extension to `System.Data.SqlDbTypes`:
```

```csharp
using System;
using System.Data.SqlTypes;
using System.Text.Json;

namespace Microsoft.Data.SqlTypes
{
    /// <summary>

>     /// Represents the Json Data type in SQL Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// Represents the Json data type in SQL Server.
```

    public class SqlJson : INullable
    {
        /// <summary>
        /// Parameterless constructor. Initializes a new instance of the SqlJson class which 
        /// represents a null JSON value.
        /// </summary>
        public SqlJson() { }

        /// <summary>
        /// Takes a <see cref="string"/> as input and initializes a new instance of the SqlJson class.
        /// </summary>
        /// <param name="jsonString"></param>
        public SqlJson(string jsonString) { }

        /// <summary>
        /// Takes a <see cref="JsonDocument"/> as input and initializes a new instance of the SqlJson class.
        /// </summary>
        /// <param name="jsonDoc"></param>
        public SqlJson(JsonDocument jsonDoc) { }

        /// <inheritdoc/>
        public bool IsNull => throw null;

        /// <summary>
        /// Represents a null instance of the <see cref="SqlJson"/> type.
        /// </summary>
        public static SqlJson Null { get { throw null; } }

        /// <summary>
        /// Gets the string representation of the Json content of this <see cref="SqlJson" /> instance.
        /// </summary>
        public string Value { get ; }
    }
}
```

> JSON datatype is supported by the driver for reading, writing, streaming and performing bulk copy operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JSON data type supports reading, writing, streaming, and bulk copy operations.
```

    public System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerator<System.Collections.Generic.KeyValuePair<string, object>> GetEnumerator();
}
```

Implemented in PR: [#2226](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2226)

#### Added Support for Connection Overrides in `OpenAsync()` API

The default behavior of `SqlConnection.OpenAsync()` can be overridden to disable the ten-second delay and automatic connection retries triggered by transient errors.

```csharp
using(SqlConnection sqlConnection = new SqlConnection("Data Source=(local);Integrated Security=true;Initial Catalog=AdventureWorks;"))
{
    await sqlConnection.OpenAsync(SqlConnectionOverrides.OpenWithoutRetry, cancellationToken);
}
```

Implemented in PR: [#2433](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2433)

#### Other Additions

- Added support for .NET 9 [#2946](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2946)
- Added localization in Czech, Polish, and Turkish [#2987](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2987)
- Added `TokenCredential` object to take advantage of token caching in `ActiveDirectoryAuthenticationProvider`. [#2380](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2380)

> - Added `DateOnly` and `TimeOnly` support to `DataTable` as a structured parameter. [#2258](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2258)

Reviewer 2: And SqlDataRecord (apparently)

Reviewer 2: @benrr01 see my PR here, and related issues. Apparently my fix in #2258 also impacted SqlDataRecord

Author: Ok, I think this rewriting of the addition explains it well enough.

- Added scope trace for `GenerateSspiClientContext`. [#2497](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2497), [#2725](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2725)

> - Added readme to nuget package [#2826](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2826)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added readme to NuGet package [#2826](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2826)
```
